I remember coming to Sydney thirteen years ago. The entryway from the north into Sydney is through this great bridge. It was built to a great engineering standard but it still needs to be monitored and looked at. [Music] What we've seen over the years is an increase in volume of vehicles. The weight of trucks towing lots of freight and what we're trying to do is understand how the bridge responds to different loading and making sure that that bridge will be able to accommodate those changes To conditions and loading uses over time. Rhodes Maritime Services came to us and said how can we manage Sydney Harbour Bridge? Currently we send inspectors, he said, but it would be really good to have some sensors or some sort of technology to help us get an early warning if some maintenance is needed. And we ended up with the technology where we could basically give the bridge oa voice. The bridge could tell the asset manager when the bridge needs attention. We have this fiber-optic network going the length of the bridge with 3200 sensors underneath the bridge. As vehicles travel over the bridge we're measuring vibrations and then measuring the response of the structure to those vibrations. With so much traffic going over it and wind and other things going on so to extract some meaningful information we use machine learning. It's a set of smart algorithms, can take the raw data and then tell you the performance of the bridge. It's going to help understand the ability of that asset to cope in different conditions and really maximize the productivity and efficiency. Really brings together distributed sensors, communication networking technologies, smart algorithms and data visualization suited to our customers needs. The next steps for us at Data 61 is to work with Cisco through innovation central taking all of our learning from the Sydney Harbour Bridge and packaging it up in a way thats scalable, can be marketed to different segments and can apply to different sized structures through Australia and the world. [Music] I see a connected world, an Internet of Things world and the ability to connect and understand our infrastructure is going to be Key to that. This technology will help us do that. [Music]