Hi, today I've prepared for you a small example of a video that is associated with three different tracks. Two for subtitles, in English and in German, and one track for chapters. First, before going further, let's look at how this is rendered in different browsers. With Google Chrome, we've got a CC button here, that will enable or disable subtitles. What we can see is that by default the subtitles that are displayed are in German (in this example). And I can just switch them on and off. It loaded the first track that has the default attribute. And I have no menu for choosing what track, what language I want to be displayed here … If we look at FireFox, it's even worse! We don't have any menu at all, no CC button. I cannot switch on the subtitles, because as of December 2015, FireFox will load only the first track, if it has the default attribute. This is not the case, so we don't have any subtitles and we cannot display them. With Safari, on my Mac, it's better because I've got a subtitle menu and I can choose between the different tracks. I can switch to English subtitles, and english subtitles will be displayed. I'm on a MacIntosh so I cannot show you... but with other browsers like Internet Explorer or Microsoft Edge, there are situations similar to Safari. So, what can be do to increase the features of the default player? We can use what we call the Track API, for asking which tracks are available, activating them, and so on. Now, I would like to remind you the structure of a track. I'm just going to display the content of one of these tracks. The tracks are made of cues and what we call a cue is a kind of time segment that is defined with a starting time and an ending time. And the cue can have an ID, in that case it is a numeric ID (1, 2, 3), and a content that can be HTML with bold, italic elements and it can also be a voice so when you see "v" followed by the name of the character that is speaking, it’s a voice. So, we are going to look at what we can do with such tracks during the course and we will see how to handle a chapter menu, how to display a nice transcript on the side of the video, that you can click to jump at the exact time the video tells the words that are on the transcript. And we will see also how to choose the subtitle or caption track language for the video. So, this is finished for this small introduction video, I will just conclude by this thing here: explaining this crossOrigin="anonymous". We saw that during the HTML5 Part 1 course and many people asked questions about this. This is because of security constraints. In browsers, when you've got the HTML page that is on a different location than the video file and the tracks files, you will have security constraints errors. And if your server is configured for accepting different origins, then you can add this attribute crossOrigin="anonymous" in your HTML document and it is going to work. So the server here: mainline.i3s.unice.fr has been configured for allowing external HTML pages to include the videos it hosts and the subtitles it hosts, this is the reason. You can use the DropBox public directory here because Dropbox also enables cross origin requests. So this is all for this first video, I see you in the next one!